DKP-539 Added release notes for Docker Desktop 4.16 (#16465)
docker/docs: desktop/release-notes.md

For frequently asked questions about Docker Desktop releases, see [FAQs](faqs/general.md/#releases)

## 4.16.0

{% include release-date.html date="2022-01-12" %}

> Download Docker Desktop
>
> {% include desktop-install.html %}

### New

- Extensions have moved from Beta to GA
- Quick Search has moved from experimental to GA
- Extensions are now included in Quick Search
- Analyzing large images is now up to 4x faster
- New local images view has moved from experimental to GA

> - Rosetta for Linux as a Beta feature on MacOS 13 for faster emulation of Intel-based images on Apple Silicon

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- New Beta feature for MacOS 13, Rosetta for Linux, has been added for faster emulation of Intel-based images on Apple Silicon.
```

- [Compose v2.15.1](https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/tag/v2.15.1)
- [Containerd v1.6.14](https://github.com/containerd/containerd/releases/tag/v1.6.14)
- [Docker Engine v20.10.22](https://docs.docker.com/engine/release-notes/#201022)
- [Buildx v0.10.0](https://github.com/docker/buildx/releases/tag/v0.10.0)
- [Docker Scan v0.23.0](https://github.com/docker/scan-cli-plugin/releases/tag/v0.23.0)
- [Go 1.19.4](https://github.com/golang/go/releases/tag/go1.19.4)

### Bug fixes and enhancements

#### For all platforms

- Fixed `docker build --quiet` not outputting the image identifier with the `containerd` integration.
- Fixed image inspect not showing image labels with the `containerd` integration.
- Increased the contrast between running and stopped container icons to make it easier for colorblind people to scan the containers list.
- Fixed a bug where the user is prompted for new HTTP proxy credentials repeatedly until Docker Desktop is restarted.
- Added a diagnostics command `com.docker.diagnose login` to check HTTP proxy configuration.
- Fixed actions on compose stack not working properly. Fixes [docker/for-mac#6566](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6566).

> - Fixed the Docker Desktop dashboard trying at startup to get disk usage information and display an error banner before the engine was running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed the Docker dashboard trying at startup to get disk usage information and display an error banner before the engine was running.
```

> - Added an informational banner with instructions to opt-out of experimental feature access next to all experimental features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added an informational banner with instructions on how to opt-out of experimental feature access next to all experimental features.
```

> - Support downloading Kubernetes images via an HTTP proxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Docker Desktop now supports downloading Kubernetes images via an HTTP proxy.
```

- Fixed tooltips to not block action buttons. Fixes [docker/for-mac#6516](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6516).

> - Fixed the blank "An error occurred" container list on the Container Overview screen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed the blank "An error occurred" container list on the **Container** view.
```

#### For Mac

- Fixed the Docker engine not starting when Enhanced Container Isolation is enabled if the legacy `osxfs` implementation is used for file sharing.
- Fixed files created on VirtioFS having the executable bit set. Fixes [docker/for-mac#6614](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/6614).
- Added back a way to uninstall Docker Desktop from the command line. Fixes [docker/for-mac#6598](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6598).
- Fixed hardcoded `/usr/bin/kill`. Fixes [docker/for-mac#6589](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6589).
- Fixed truncation (for example with the `truncate` command) of very large files (> 38GB) shared on VirtioFS with an incorrect size.

> - Changed the disk image size in the Settings to use the decimal system (base 10) to coincide with how Finder displays disk capacity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Changed the disk image size in **Settings** to use the decimal system (base 10) to coincide with how Finder displays disk capacity.
```

- Fixed Docker crash under network load. Fixes [docker/for-mac#6530](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6530).
- Fixed an issue causing Docker to prompt the user to install the `/var/run/docker.sock` symlink after every reboot.
- Ensured the Login Item which installs the `/var/run/docker.sock` symlink is signed.
- Fixed bug where `$HOME/.docker` was removed on factory reset.

### For Windows

- Fixed `docker build` hanging while printing "load metadata for". Fixes [docker/for-win#10247](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/10247).

> - Fixed typo in diagnose.exe output (https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/13107).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed typo in diagnose.exe output Fixes [docker/for-win#13107](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/13107).
```

For frequently asked questions about Docker Desktop releases, see [FAQs](faqs/general.md/#releases)

## 4.16.0

{% include release-date.html date="2022-01-12" %}

> Download Docker Desktop
>
> {% include desktop-install.html %}

### New

- Extensions have moved from Beta to GA
- Quick Search has moved from experimental to GA
- Extensions are now included in Quick Search
- Analyzing large images is now up to 4x faster

### Upgrades

- [Compose v2.15.0](https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/tag/v2.15.0)

> - [Containeld v1.6.14](https://github.com/containerd/containerd/releases/tag/v1.6.14)

Reviewer 2: Typo `Containerd` instead of `Containeld`

- [Docker Engine v20.10.22](https://docs.docker.com/engine/release-notes/#201022)
- [Docker Scan v0.23.0](https://github.com/docker/scan-cli-plugin/releases/tag/v0.23.0)
- [Go 1.19.4](https://github.com/golang/go/releases/tag/go1.19.4)

### Bug fixes and enhancements

> #### For all platforms

Reviewer 2: This PR fixes an important issue https://github.com/docker/pinata/pull/19991 on the Container overview page. 
There's no corresponding Github issue but it's been reported several times on feedback-channel Slack and also [by our client](https://docker.slack.com/archives/C0W4XJVFW/p1672985651503269). I'd put it here, something like
```
- Fixed "An error occured" with Container overview screen
```
WDYT @lizzthabet @landism ?

Reviewer 3: thanks for calling this out, @trungutt! i might be more slightly more specific:

```
- Fixed the blank "An error occurred" container list on the Container Overview screen 
```

- Fixed actions on compose stack not working properly. Fixes [docker/for-mac#6566](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6566).
- Fixed the Docker Desktop dashboard trying at startup to get disk usage information and display an error banner before the engine was running.
- Added an informational banner with instructions to opt-out of experimental feature access next to all experimental features.
- Support downloading Kubernetes images via an HTTP proxy.

#### For Mac

- Fixed the Docker engine not starting when Enhanced Container Isolation is enabled if the legacy `osxfs` implementation is used for file sharing.
- Fixed files created on VirtioFS having the executable bit set. Fixes [docker/for-mac#6614](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/6614).
- Added back a way to uninstall Docker Desktop from the command line. Fixes [docker/for-mac#6598](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6598).
- Fixed hardcoded `/usr/bin/kill`. Fixes [docker/for-mac#6589](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6589).
- Fixed truncation (for example with the `truncate` command) of very large files (> 38GB) shared on VirtioFS with an incorrect size.

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Fixed Docker crash under network load. Fixes [docker/for-mac#6530](https://github.com/docker/for-mac/issues/6530).

```

Author: What’s the pr number for this one? Did I miss it somehow?

Author: @djs55 do you have a link to an internal ticket or PR?

Reviewer 5: POS-1356 I believe

Author: Ah, thanks, none of the linked PR had a release note then.

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue causing Docker to prompt the user to install the `/var/run/docker.sock` symlink after every reboot.

```
WDYT @aiordache ?

Author: Same here, is there a release note in the PR?

Reviewer 6: @djs55 Sounds good to me.

Author: Is there an internal ticket and/or a PR?

Author: Thanks. So no for-mac issue related to any of these 3 new entries?

Reviewer 4: I found one for the prompt but not for the other 2.

### For Windows

- Fixed `docker build` hanging while printing "load metadata for". Fixes [docker/for-win#10247](https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/10247).
- Fixed typo in diagnose.exe output (https://github.com/docker/for-win/issues/13107).
- Added support for running under cgroupv2 on WSL 2. This is activated by adding `kernelCommandLine = systemd.unified_cgroup_hierarchy=1 cgroup_no_v1=all` to your `%USERPROFILE%\.wslconfig` file in the `[wsl2]` section.

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- When running in WSL 2 mode, the privileged Docker Desktop Service is not required.

```
WDYT @elapuyade ?

Author: @elapuyade?

Reviewer 5: I don't think this is included in 4.16

For frequently asked questions about Docker Desktop releases, see [FAQs](faqs/general.md/#releases)

## 4.16.0

{% include release-date.html date="2022-01-12" %}

> Download Docker Desktop
>
> {% include desktop-install.html %}

### New

- Extensions have moved from Beta to GA

> - Quick Search has moved from experimental to GA

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest:
```
New local images view has moved from experimental to GA
```
WDYT @stephanierifai ?

Reviewer 7: confirmed, let's add it!

- Extensions are now included in Quick Search
- Analyzing large images is now up to 4x faster

### Upgrades

- [Compose v2.15.1](https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/tag/v2.15.1)
- [Containerd v1.6.14](https://github.com/containerd/containerd/releases/tag/v1.6.14)
- [Docker Engine v20.10.22](https://docs.docker.com/engine/release-notes/#201022)
- [Docker Scan v0.23.0](https://github.com/docker/scan-cli-plugin/releases/tag/v0.23.0)
- [Go 1.19.4](https://github.com/golang/go/releases/tag/go1.19.4)

### Bug fixes and enhancements

> 

Reviewer 8: Forgot to add notes to https://github.com/docker/pinata/pull/19937 - maybe something like `AF_VSOCK syscalls from within containers get blocked` in a separate security section. 

It's actually related to a vuln report (https://docker.atlassian.net/browse/POS-1175), basically same `AF_VSOCK` issue with accessing the host filesystem without `-v` that we had before but for WSL2 (where we can't do the one-connection hack)

Author: No related CVE?

Reviewer 8: No CVE yet as there’s still the problem with socketcall on 32-bit as seccomp doesn’t dereference pointer args. Discussing on #desktop-security-private how to go about it

#### For all platforms

- Fixed `docker build --quiet` not outputting the image identifier with the `containerd` integration.
- Fixed image inspect not showing image labels with the `containerd` integration.

> - Increased the contrast between running and stopped container icons to make it easier for colourblind people to scan the containers list.

Reviewer 9: "color" not "colour" (we use American English).

For frequently asked questions about Docker Desktop releases, see [FAQs](faqs/general.md/#releases)

## 4.16.0

{% include release-date.html date="2022-01-12" %}

> Download Docker Desktop
>
> {% include desktop-install.html %}

### New

- Extensions have moved from Beta to GA
- Quick Search has moved from experimental to GA
- Extensions are now included in Quick Search
- Analyzing large images is now up to 4x faster
- New local images view has moved from experimental to GA

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Add Rosetta for Linux as a Beta feature on MacOS 13+ for faster emulation of Intel-based images on Apple Silicon 
```

Reviewer 5: Do we need to say `MacOS 13+`? There is no macOS 14 yet, so probably `MacOS 13` is accurate at this point

Author: Shorten a bit to
```
- Rosetta for Linux as a Beta feature on MacOS 13 for faster emulation of Intel-based images on Apple Silicon 
```
Is that all right?

Reviewer 4: Suggestion updated
